Janury 16, 2023

started project

FNKY tote bags - next js ts full stack app


1. started with the navigation

2. then the shop page with shop items

3. product changing image on hover

4. other routes done - product detail, signup page, login page

5. connected mongodb and mongoose, created products data, able to fetch products and display
---connectDb helper function
---created models too

6. did authentication with next auth and create new user api

7. started protecting routes with useSession hook --next auth as well


--- able to deploy to vercel working up to authentication

**add env variable for nextauth_url and nextauth_secret in production for deployment to work.



8. add to cart api, and add to cart buttons working

9. create cart page ---- hard coded for now


10. fetch cart, populate cart items from user cart with product ids


11. create cart context for cart item count - done with reduce, also done item cart quantity in cart page

12. create wishlist page, add to wish list , fetch wishlist and populate

13. remove from wishlist

----able to but not able to refresh and update ui. will continue doing orders part for now, going back to refresh part last.

14. add shipping address to checkout

15. add to orders api

16. clear cart after add order

17. get orders and display orders in orders page

18. remove item from cart

19. add to cart by quantity

20. trying to fix - re-render after request to reflect/update ui

Solution --- refreshData function in page component and fetchCartItems function from context...

21. tried to deploy but encountered 500 error. found out this is because of populate...

----found solution, need to import or use or call Product model, even if you will not directly use it. before populating, with Products


const products = await Product.find()

  const foundUser = await User.findOne({ email }).populate(
    "cart.items.productId"
  );
  
  
 --- in this example, products and Product model is really not needed, but without this, populate of Product within User does not work.
 --- it seems you need to import or call Product for user to be able to recognize the model for population?
 
 ---also need to do this for creating Order.
 
 
 
 
22. added createdOn field in Order model, sets new Date when order is created.
23. created function to calculate delivery date, which is 7 days after order is created.
24. display ETD and shipping address in orders
25. disable checkout button if no shipping address

26. media queries --- also added mobile nav menu


27.react toastify?

28. make images static instead of from cdn, check if app loads faster




